I just bought three books on boredom the other day. Uh,
so now I'm really interested in this topic because I,
I was anxious about my book launch happening this week. So I was like, okay,
I need something else to, so I have this idea for a,
I might do a as an article first, but as a book, like, okay,
I need something cool to be thinking about because I was worried about like,
I don't have, is the launch gonna the pandemic what's gonna happen?
I don't know if it's gonna get to that. So I,
this is exactly what we're talking about.
So I went out and I bought a bunch of books and I'm beginning like a whole, uh,
sort of intellectual exploration.
Well,
I think that's one of the profound ideas and deep work that you don't expand on,
uh, too much is, uh.
Boredom. Yeah. Well, so it work had a,
a superficial idea about boredom, which, which was, uh,
I had this chapter called embrace boredom and a very functionalist idea was
basically,
you have to have some boredom in your regular schedule or your mind is gonna
form a Pavlovian connection between as soon as I feel boredom, I get stimuli.
And once it forms that connection, it's never gonna tolerate deep.
So there's this very pragmatic treatment of boredom of your mind,
better be used to the idea that sometimes you don't get stimulated because
otherwise you can't write for three hours. Mm-hmm, <affirmative> like, it's,
it's just not gonna tolerate it. But more, more recently,
what I'm really interested in boredom is it as a fundamental human drive, right?
Because it's incredibly uncomfortable.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and think about the other things that incredibly
uncomfortable, like hunger or thirst,
they serve a really important purpose for a species, right? Like if,
if something is really distressing, there's a reason,
pain is really uncomfortable because we need to worry about getting injured.
Thirst is really uncomfortable because we need water to survive.
So what's boredom. Why is that uncomfortable? And,
and I've been interested in this notion that boredom is about
driving us towards productive action, like as a species. I mean,
think about it. Like what,
what got us to actually take advantage of these brains?
What got us to actually work with fire?
What got us to start shaping stones and the hand AEs and figuring out if we
could actually sharpen a stick sharp enough that we could throw it as a Melia
weapon or a, a distance weapon for hunting mammoth, right.
Boredom drives us towards action. Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
So now I'm fascinated by this fundamental action instinct, uh,
because I have this theory that I'm working on that we're outta sync with it,
just like we got, we have this drive for hunger,
but then we introduce junk food and got outta sync with hunger. And,
and it makes us really unhealthy. We have this drive for towards action,
but then we, we overload ourselves and we have all of these distractions.
And then that causes, uh, it's like a cognitive action obesity type things.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> because it short circuits,
the system that wants us to do things,
but we put more things in our plate and we can possibly do.
And then we're really frustrated. We can't do 'em and we're,
we're short circuiting, all of our wires. So it all comes back to this question.
Well, what would be the ideal?
<affirmative> the ideal sort of amount of stuff to do and type of things to do.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> like if we wanted to look back at our ancestral environment
and say, if I could just build from scratch, what type,
how much work I do and what I work on to be as in touch with that as like paleo
people are trying to get their diets in touch with that. And so now I'm just,
well, see, this is, I'm just, it's something I made up. Yeah.
But now I'm going deep on it. And one of my podcast listeners, I was,
I was talking about on the show and I was like, well,
I kept trying to learn about animals and boredom.
And she sent me this cool article from an animal behavioralist journal about
what we know about human boredom versus animal boredom.
So trying to figure out that puzzle is, uh, the wave that's high.
So I can get through the wave. That's low of, like,
I don't know about this pandemic book launch and, you know, yeah. <laugh> and,
and my research, my research is stumbling a little bit because of the pandemic.
And so I needed a nice, you know, high. So there we go. There's a case study.
The, it is both a case study and a very interesting set of concepts.
Cause I didn't even realize that it's so simple.
I'm one of the people that, uh,
has a interesting push and pull dynamic with hunger,
trying to understand the hunger with myself.
Like I probably have a unhealthy relationship with food. I don't know,
but there's probably a perfect,
that's a nice way to think about diet as action.
There's probably an optimal diet response to the,
the experience that our body's telling us, the signal that our body's sending,
which is hunger. Yeah. And in that same way,
boredom is sending a signal and most of our intellectual activities in this
world are creative activities are essentially a response,
uh, to that signal.
Yeah. And, and think about this analogy that we have, this hunger instinct,
that junk food short circuits. Yes. Right. It's like, oh, we'll,
we'll satisfy that hyper palatably and it doesn't up.
Well now think about modern attention engineered,
digitally mediated entertainment. We have this board of instinct. Oh, we can,
we can take care of that with a hyper palatable alternative.
Is that gonna lead to a similar problem? So.
I've been fasting a lot lately. Like, uh, I'm doing, um,
eating once a day. I've been doing that for over a month,
just eating one meal a day and primarily meat, but it's very,
uh, fasting has been incredible for me for focus for wellbeing,
for feel. I don't, I don't know, just for feeling good. Okay.
Well put on a chart. What makes me feel good? And, uh,
that fasting and eating primarily a meat based diet makes me feel really good.
And so, but that ultimately what fasting did,
I haven't fasted super long yet like a seven day diet,
which I really like to do,
but even just fasting for a day for 24 hours gets you in touch with
your, with the sick. No, it's fascinating.
Like you get to listen to your learn to listen to your body that like,
you know, it's okay to be hungry.
It's like a little signal that sends you stuff. And then, and then, uh,
I get to listen to how it responds when I put food in
my body. Like, and I get to like, okay, cool.
So like food is a thing that pacifies this signal. Like it sounds ridiculous.
Okay. No, you could do that with and do different types of food.
It feels different. So you learn about what your body wants. For some reason,
fast, the it's similar to the deep work, embrace boredom.
Fasting allowed me to go into mode of listening,
of trying to understand the signal that I could say.
I have an unhealthy appreciation of fruit. Okay.
I love apples and cherries. Like I don't know how to moderate them.
So if you take just same amount of calories, don't know calories matter.
But as I say, calories,
2000 calories of cherries versus 2000 calories of
steak. If I eat 2000 calories of steak,
maybe with just a little bit of like green beans or cauliflower,
I'm going to feel really good, fulfilled, focused, and happy. Yeah.
If I eat cherries, I'm going to be,
I'm gonna wake up behind a dumpster crying with like naked and like,
it just hits all around. Yeah. <laugh> with everything face. Yeah.
And it's just like bloated, just not and unhappy. And also the,
the mood swings up and down. I don't know. Uh,
and I'll be much hungrier the next day. Sometimes it takes a couple days.
Yeah. But when I introduce carbs into the system too many carbs, I, it starts,
it's just unhealth. It's a,
I go into this rollercoaster as opposed to a calm boat ride along the river and
the Amazon or stuff like that. Yeah. And so fasting was the mechanism of,
for me to start listening to the body. I wonder if you can do that same kind of,
I guess that's what meditation a little bit is a little bit, but yeah.
Listen to boredom.